---
layout: post
title: "Dahl"
published: true
---

I love Roald Dahl's work. I mean, who doesn't? His razor sharp wit, wry style, and genuinely detestable villians make for excellent reading for anyone. He's mostly remembered for his work on childrens' books, but he wrote with such skill that adults happily allow themselves this guilty pleasure. Not to mention some horrifying nightmare fuel added in for good measure, too. 

The form of the stories work well for their target audience, but also throw a bone to the rest of us. And these stories take a long, long time to gestate, let alone to create. Roald said this of his process:

> 'I have a notebook for plots. It is the same one I’ve had for twenty years. If I get the germ of an idea, I scribble it down in the notebook, one idea to each page. ... Once or twice every year, I leaf through the book ... And then at last, *perhaps after three years, perhaps after seven*, there comes a time when I look at it and see that it is ripe for writing, and I take it out of the book, and start away.'

*Seven years*. I finished Design School seven years ago. There have been seven iPhones released in the last seven years. I wonder just how many of his stories took seven years before being unearthed, deemed ripe enough to be worked on. If that's the case, maybe I can still get some blog posts out. 

Maybe all great ideas, like Dahl's, take time to fully mature, and ruminate into something worth evaluating and addressing. It allows contemplation, re-writing, re-framing, divergence ... all the techniques and processes that mirror what *should* be great design practice. Speaking of design practice, Dahl also drops this interesting nugget:

> ‘Good writing is essentially rewriting. I am positive of this ...’

Writing is effectively the same as designing, only using various shapes, strokes, and fills on a particular medium instead of words to communicate meaning through a shared (visual) language. Nobody sits down and creates their finest work in one fell swoop. Time and effort work together to arrange disparate ideas into something unique and, dare I say it, delightful, for the observer or reader; shaving chunks off as well as appending more is a fine art that is necessary for the fine art of succint and powerful storytelling.
