---
layout: post
title: "So long, 2018"
published: true
---

2018 has been a great year for me: great, I mean, in the context of personal milestones. I'm now a homeower (taken long enough), I have a steady (and interesting) job, and I truly enjoy what I do and where I am within this crazy, warp-speed-change-at-the-drop-of-a-hat online industry. 

I don't believe in getting overly sentimental about the passing of the year; after *Auld Lang Syne* has come to a stop, it's time to look forward to the year ahead, and to march on with some small life changes (which I'm avoiding calling resolutions, *just because*.) Many of these changes are personal, but some are professional, and I hope the two work together to make me that little bit better in the coming 52 weeks, or 365 days. Here are a few of my small life changes that I thought I'd share:

**Personal**

- I'm *cutting down* on the booze, but not becoming a teetotal nun, either. There's a fine line between enjoying life and beating the hell out of life. I stopped smoking on Armistice day 2014, and I've only had much better health because of it. In terms of alcohol, a glass of wine a night is fine. Two large glasses of wine, followed by whisky, followed by whatever is in the booze cupboard, is not. 
- The dreaded gym. I like to think of myself as an avid walker; any excuse to use my legs and I'm there, plodding away at a leisurely pace. I'll go for more of these walks. When it comes to genuinely improving my physical and mental health (and shedding a few Christmas ounces), the gym is the place to be. Going more than twice a week is probably something I should be doing, considering I sit on my backside for 8 hours a day. 
- Oh, the *reading* I will do. I've already torn through a fair number of titles in 2018, and the more I think about it, I'm happier reading fiction than I am watching Netflix (within reason). Any titles you could recommend, and I'll add them to my impossibly large 'to-read' list. 

**Professional**

- 'Networking'. I've been to my fair share of meetups, conferences and talks, but I struggle (as I'm sure many do) to connect with strangers in a more meaningful way. The operative word in this point is 'stranger', so I don't think it's remiss of me to 
- Research, and reading around practices, processes, tips and fiddles. There's so much out there I couldn't even begin to sift through the myriad articles on Medium and the like, but a few surgically selected works, thoughtfully consumed and fully understood and explored, will be my remedy to the tsunami of opinions and listicles I try to pick my way through each day. 
- Taking the time to write - about anything. I'm paraphrasing here, but generally, if you write about a subject you're interested in, you'll learn more about it. I assume this is more to do with the groundwork that goes into not writing a load of rubbish (which I may have been party to once in a while,) but writing is something I thoroughly enjoy. And what's wrong with doing more of the things you thoroughly enjoy? The thought of writing about something that could potentially be critiqued - and not in a nice way - worried me slightly; but hey, it's the internet. Not many opinions on the internet count, do they?
- Focusing on the multidisciplinary in multidisciplinary. Sure, I'm almost a 100% digital designer in my working life, but it doesn't have to be that way. I look back on the rich tapestry of my design education, and it's included graphics, print, architecture, systems, modelling, litho, painting, painting, life drawing, construction... the very things that give me the tools to look at the world in a different way and interrogate that perspective to create unique ideas. It's criminal to disregard the whole stock in the stable.  

That's everything, I think. Nothing too high-and-mighty, and, for me at least, remotely achievable with a sprinkling of mindfullness. Here's to a happy 2019.
